# Image Processing Lab

Lab exercises for the  [course on image processing](https://perso.esiee.fr/~perretb/I5FM/TAI/) (in French).



## Organization

There are 5 files to complete, each one corresponds to a course chapter:

1. ``src/tpHistogram.cpp``: histogram manipulation functions [related course chapter](https://perso.esiee.fr/~perretb/I5FM/TAI/histogramme/index.html)
2. ``src/tpConnectedComponents.cpp`` pixel adjacency and connected components [related course chapter](https://perso.esiee.fr/~perretb/I5FM/TAI/connexity/index.html)
3. ``src/tpGeometry.cpp`` geometric image transforms [related course chapter](https://perso.esiee.fr/~perretb/I5FM/TAI/geometry/index.html)
4. ``src/tpConvolution.cpp`` linear image filters [related course chapter](https://perso.esiee.fr/~perretb/I5FM/TAI/convolution/index.html)
5. ``src/tpMorphology.cpp`` non-linear image filters [related course chapter](https://perso.esiee.fr/~perretb/I5FM/TAI/morpho/index.html)

## How to


### Environment

This lab requires a working *nix environment with a c++ 11 compiler and valgrind.

The library *OpenCV4* is required to compile this project. To install a local version of this library just execute the script ``./init.sh``. This script will automatically download the required libraries  and set up the environment variable required by the makefile.  

**Important:** If you install **OpenCV** with the script ``./init.sh``, you have to run the script in every terminal used to work on this project!

### Compilation

Just run ``make`` in the top directory, this will create several executables in the ``bin`` directory. 

**Tip** When using *make*, use the argument ``-j n`` to launch a parallel compilation on ``n`` cores. For example: ``make -j 4`` while compile up to 4 files in parallel. 

### Executables

Each exercise is associated to its own command line tool. For exemple, the first function to code ``inverse`` in the file ``src/tpHistogram.cpp`` is associated to the command line tool ``bin/inverse`` generated by *make*.

The usage of the command line tools is obtained with the argument ``--help``, for example, executing the command ``./inverse --help`` inside the ``bin`` directory produces the following output:

    Inverse
    Usage: ./inverse [OPTIONS]

    Options:
    -h,--help                   Print this help message and exit
    -I,--inputImage TEXT        Input image filename
    -O,--outputImage TEXT       Output image filename
    -S,--show                   Display input and output images in new windows

### Unit tests

Each command line tool is associated to a unit test that can be executed with the tool ``bin/test``. For example the tool ``inverse`` can be tested with the command ``./test -P inverse``. If the test detects an error, you can ask to see an error map with the argument ``-S``: this will display an image showing where the errors are located: the brighter a pixel is, the further it is from the expected result. 